Impact Report
HIGHLIGHTS FROM OUR 2025-26 YEAR
Territorial Acknowledgement
Table of Contents
Who We Are............................................................2
Our Year in Numbers..............................................3
A Message from Our CEO.......................................4
Advancing New Models of Care.............................6
Meeting Diverse Community Needs.......................8
The Impact of Supportive Housing.........................9
Protecting Affordable Housing..............................11
Overcoming Barriers to Employment....................13
Recovery Through Community.............................14
Our Sincere Thanks...............................................16
Connective is honoured to support people and 
communities across several ancestral, 
traditional, and unceded Indigenous territories 
in BC and the Yukon.  
As visitors on these lands, we recognize the 
privilege and responsibility of providing 
culturally appropriate services. We commit to 
incorporating the wisdom and expertise of 
Indigenous Elders, Knowledge Keepers, service 
users, and community groups in all that we do, 
to ensure our programs and services meet the 
needs of all those we serve. 
Who We Are
Connective is a Canadian nonprofit working to create safe, 
healthy, and inclusive communities for all. 
For the past several decades, we have worked alongside 
communities across BC and the Yukon to address 
homelessness, housing instability, mental health and 
substance use challenges, and other barriers that prevent 
people from thriving. In that time, we’ve earned the trust of 
governments, funders, and the public—and we continue to 
honour it through accountable, impactful service.  
Our housing, justice, recovery, outreach, employment, and 
community inclusion programs are tailored to meet individual 
needs and strengthen social connections. At Connective, we 
believe that person-centred service and public 
accountability go hand in hand. Every dollar invested in our 
programs is carefully stewarded to help meet the needs of 
individuals, families, and their communities.  
With a proven track record of effective service delivery, we are 
proud of what we’ve accomplished, eager to continue 
investing in what works, and ready to meet emerging 
challenges. 
2
VISION
MISSION
VALUES
We strengthen communities by supporting people 
experiencing barriers so they can achieve greater 
independence.
A safe, healthy, and inclusive community for all. 
Inclusive, Accountable, Person-Centred, Collaborative, 
Determined
Our Year in Numbers
91
PROGRAMS
1,393
STAFF
1,618
HOUSING UNITS
7,643
PERSONS SERVED
+565 in Development
Tenant & Service User Demographics
•	
34% Indigenous 
•	
24% Youth (15-29), 9% Seniors (65+)
•	
67% Male, 31% Female, 1% Non-Binary
Across 27 Communities
A Message from Our CEO
Ten years ago, I began my journey with Connective. 
At that time, we were a team of approximately 125 staff, 
working at 11 program locations, to support 130 service users in 
British Columbia’s Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley. 
Today, Connective has grown into an organization of almost
1,400 employees delivering nearly 100 programs and 
managing over 1,600 housing units in service of more than 
7,600 people across 27 communities in BC and the Yukon. 
Achieving that transformation has taken careful balance. We 
have stayed true to our core values and embraced the 
nimble, creative spirit often associated with smaller 
non-profits. At the same time, we have made a series of 
deliberate strategic decisions that have strengthened our 
leadership, governance, and financial systems, while 
expanding our organizational capacity. 
These last ten years have brought profound social, 
economic, and political change. Across the communities we 
serve, housing affordability, homelessness, mental health and 
substance use, and other complex challenges have placed 
increasing pressure on service users and providers. 
That focus on growth has never been about 
scale for its own sake. 
4
Looking ahead to the next decade, I see Connective’s poten-
tial to serve more communities across Canada, expand our 
portfolio of affordable and supportive housing, and strength-
en our evolving services. The work required will be significant, 
but this past decade has shown what is possible when we 
pair ambition with discipline, growth with purpose, and inno-
vation with accountability. Together, we will continue building 
safe, healthy, and inclusive communities for all. 
Mark Miller
Chief Executive Officer
Our consistency and long-term approach have earned us the 
trust of governments, health authorities, Indigenous partners, 
community organizations, funders, and the thousands of 
people who rely on our services every year.  
In 2025-26, that trust enabled us to expand our housing 
portfolio, pilot innovative service models, and explore 
opportunities to extend our impact into new provinces and 
communities. Our annual Leadership Gathering united 
leaders from the justice, health, housing, and social sectors to 
discuss ways to strengthen the social safety net by 
diversifying housing options.
Receiving BC Non-Profit Housing Association’s Housing 
Provider of the Year Award in the fall of 2025 was a 
tremendous honour, and an affirmation that this long-term 
approach is making a difference. While we are proud of the 
recognition, the award ultimately belongs to all those who 
have helped shape better housing solutions across BC. 
The pages ahead offer a window into the stories, milestones, 
and achievements of the past year—each reflecting the 
meaningful impact Connective creates every day. I hope you 
enjoy reading them. 
Each investment we’ve made has responded to 
today’s challenges, while building the 
foundation for tomorrow’s opportunities. 
5
Our choices have allowed us to go where we’re needed most, 
support under-resourced communities, and meet evolving 
needs.
Members of the Board accepted the BC Non-Profit Housing Provider 
of the Year Award on behalf of Connective in 2025
Advancing New Models of Care
Last year, Connective and Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) 
opened Spiritwood Homes. 
Designed to support individuals living with severe and 
persistent mental illness and co-occurring disorders, this 
innovative partnership is redefining what long-term 
psychiatric and social rehabilitation can look like for those 
who historically have had to rely on institutional care. 
For many residents, it represents their first opportunity in years 
to live somewhere that feels less like a hospital and more like 
a community.
Without many precedents to follow, bringing Spiritwood online 
“was like building an airplane mid-flight,” describes Jessica, 
Spiritwood’s Program Manager. Instead, Connective and VCH 
relied on continuous learning as they sought to balance 
clinical care with social support.
SPIRITWOOD HOMES, ONE YEAR LATER
“We’re all here for the residents, so we focused 
on that common goal and built a unified team. 
We’re not VCH and we’re not Connective – we’re 
Spiritwood.”
Together, the teams’ complementary expertise is creating 
something neither could accomplish alone.  
 
“We have seen massive changes in the residents that have 
come to us.”  
6
Residents who previously isolated in hospital settings are now 
participating in activities, exploring the grounds, sharing 
poetry and music at talent shows, and taking part in 
community celebrations. Meanwhile, escalations have 
remained exceptionally low. For Jessica, the staff have been 
the key.
Their focus on relationship building means residents’ needs 
are addressed proactively, helping to avoid any roadblocks 
before they arise. 
Spiritwood’s location is also playing an important role. “The 
land that we’re on is really healing,” says Jessica. “If you’re in 
Vancouver and at a hospital, there’s not a lot of quiet. There’s 
not a lot of peace.”  
With the program’s second building now open and 
welcoming residents, soon more people will be able to benefit 
from all Spiritwood has to offer.  
As communities continue to explore supports for people with 
complex mental health needs, Jessica hopes anyone looking 
at Spiritwood takes away one thing: 
“The staff are really amazing, and they really 
care about the people they work with. And I 
think that comes across.”
7
“It’s a program, yes, but it’s also a home.”
Michael’s journey began with a new acquired brain injury 
program in Maple Ridge. He later helped launch a staffed 
living program in Port Coquitlam, earned a promotion to 
Senior Manager, and expanded his portfolio across 
multiple programs and communities. As Connective 
continues to grow, leaders like Michael play a vital role in 
bringing organizational knowledge, expertise, and passion to 
varied service models and regions.  
Despite the challenges of the past year, Michael remains 
driven by purpose.
Michael’s experience reflects what Connective strives to offer 
every employee – a chance to grow, embrace new 
challenges and make a meaningful impact.
“It has been a dream job. Every decision that I 
make, every task that I complete, I’m making a 
difference in somebody’s life in real time.” 
When Michael looks back on the last year with Connective, 
there’s one clear, defining throughline.   
“It’s something that I love doing – being able to learn.”
In just over 12 months, Michael has been involved with a 
diverse range of programs across BC, including supportive 
housing, transitional shelters, and an assisted living program 
for people living with acquired brain injuries. For him, one of 
the most rewarding aspects has been the opportunity to learn 
from different teams.
“It is really interesting to work between regions. 
To be honest, it is a privilege… Working under 
multiple leaders, learning from their different 
approaches and perspectives, I feel that I’m 
getting double the experience.” 
Meeting Diverse Community Needs
MICHAEL’S YEAR OF LEARNING
8
Jonathan joined Connective as a Tenant Support Worker 
when 160 Ontario Street Supportive Housing opened in 2022. 
Four years later, and now Program Manager, he has had a 
front-row seat to the program’s ongoing metamorphosis.  
“We’re seeing more trust and engagement between residents 
and staff…they know if something is wrong in their life, they 
can share with us because we have their well-being in mind.” 
Building that trust took time, says Jonathan, but today it’s 
evident everywhere. Residents lead the community garden, 
help shape programming through monthly meetings, and 
participate in everything from cultural outings and art therapy 
to movie nights and life-skills workshops. More importantly, 
they’re increasingly turning to staff not only during times of 
crisis, but as partners in pursuing their goals. 
Terra, a resident since 2022, knows the value of that support. 
After struggling with addiction and losing her home, and then 
her vehicle, Terra spent months living unhoused before finding 
stability at Ontario Street. 
“It’s hard to do anything when you don’t have a place to rest 
your head safely every night,” she says. For Terra, that peace 
that came with Ontario Street has made all the difference.
The Impact of Supportive Housing
“People aren’t looking at the program as just a 
place where they sleep anymore,” says 
Jonathan. “It’s becoming more of a home.” 
BUILDING TRUST AT 160 ONTARIO STREET
9
With support and encouragement from staff, Terra recently 
studied for and earned her Serving-it-Right certification, and 
has begun working nearby.  
“It feels great. I really am proud of that.” 
Jonathan still smiles when he talks about watching her head 
to work, a small example of the kind of moments that keep 
him going. “My favourite part is celebrating the success of our 
residents. When I think about these stories, it brings a smile to 
my face and tears to my eyes. I hear them and I feel like I was 
part of something great.”  
Alongside her new job, Terra has also become one of the 
driving forces behind the program’s community garden, and 
has inspired other residents to get involved. 
“I love doing the garden. It’s so beautiful right now. And it’s the 
easiest thing to start – you just put a few seeds and a little 
effort in, and you can watch something grow.  
As Connective prepares to expand the Ontario Street program 
with a second building and an additional 51 units of 
supportive housing, the garden serves as an apt metaphor for 
all the stories, like Terra’s, that Jonathan hopes to see sprout 
as resident trust and engagement develop.
“It lets you get out of survival mode and start 
thinking, ‘What do I want to do now?’ You can 
plan ahead.” 
Measuring Impact
This year, Connective worked with an independent 
consultant to conduct a Social Return on Investment 
(SROI) study of Ontario Street Supportive Housing. 
The study looked at the costs associated with 
supporting program residents and compared them 
to the estimated costs of remaining unhoused – the 
financial impact on health, justice, and other crisis 
systems and services. 
The study found an estimated annual savings of 
$50,000 per person housed at Ontario Street, 
reinforcing something that residents and staff, like 
Terra and Jonathan, see every day – the impact of a 
safe home, consistent support, and the mental 
space to move beyond survival mode.
10
I think that’s good for a lot of people to see – that 
their work and effort can lead somewhere.”
While maintenance requests and capital projects are an 
important part of her role as Tenant Relations Coordinator, 
Marie is most eager to talk about the people those 
responsibilities ultimately serve. 
 
Marie knows what it means to be given a chance. After 
spending 15 years away from the workforce because of health 
challenges, she struggled to find an employer willing to look 
beyond the gap in her resume. 
When Connective reached out through Indeed, Marie wasn’t 
sure she could return to full-time work. “After that much time 
off, there was a lot of second guessing myself.” 
Now, two years later, Marie oversees tenant relations across 
several affordable rental properties in Port Hardy, and has 
fallen in love with her role. “At first, it was scary, and then it just 
fit like a glove.”
Protecting Affordable Housing
OPENING DOORS IN PORT HARDY
“It’s heartbreaking to watch so many people 
struggling for their basic necessities – whether 
they’re low income, or maybe stigmatized in 
some way. To know that we’re doing something 
to meet needs in Port Hardy, that’s beautiful.”
11
“It can be hard to comprehend that you make a 
difference in a community; I sometimes have a 
hard time registering that. But it’s a great 
feeling…it brings me overwhelming joy.”
On the job, no two days look the same. Whether she’s 
processing applications, coordinating repairs, or simply sitting 
and listening to tenants who are having a bad day, Marie is, 
“just looking to help out wherever I can.”  
For tenants like Allison, that help has meant the world.  
“Where do I start? I was living with my family, [and] it was 
starting to be too much. I was thankfully approved to get my 
own place. 
I think Connective helped build up my independence, 
while also allowing me to build my own safe space, and 
learn self-control with spending money. It’s quite a positive 
change.” 
After being given the chance to restart her career, Marie is 
proud to help create the same sense of possibility for others.
12
Kai’s* Story
“As an Indigenous person, I faced barriers including limited 
access to opportunities and support. I also deal with mental 
health challenges, which made it difficult to stay motivated, 
confident, and consistent in job searching.  
My main goal going into the program was to gain practical 
skills and certifications so I could improve my chances of 
getting hired and create a more stable financial situation for 
myself. I also wanted to build confidence and feel capable of 
working again. 
 
During the program, I learned valuable skills that are directly 
connected to employment opportunities. I completed 
certifications in First Aid, Fire Suppression, and Chainsaw 
Safety, which opened doors to work in areas I hadn’t 
considered before. 
After completing the program, I feel more confident in my 
abilities and more hopeful about my future. I now have 
certifications that make me more employable and give me 
access to different job opportunities that also benefit my 
community. I have made progress toward my goal of 
financial stability by building real, practical skills. I also feel 
stronger mentally, knowing that I followed through on 
something and succeeded, even on the days when it was 
hard to stay motivated.”
*Names have been changed to protect anonymity
13
Overcoming Barriers 
to Employment
BUILDING CONFIDENCE THROUGH ACES
Connective’s Acquiring Community Based Employment
Skills (ACES) program helps individuals build the skills,
confidence, and connections they need to enter the
workforce.
Offered in communities across BC, ACES recognizes that
meaningful employment looks different for every
individual, just as the barriers to accessing it differ from
one person and community to the next.
For members of the Yekooche and Tsay Keh Dene First
Nations, some of those barriers come with their distance
from major city centres, where employment training
opportunities are often concentrated. This year, to help
bridge that gap, staff in Prince George collaborated with
local leadership, Band staff, and a long-time training
partner to offer wildland firefighting training cohorts.
I also learned how to stay committed, show up 
consistently, and push through my mental 
health challenges. The support I received 
helped me feel more confident and capable.  
Staff at Connective’s recovery programs know that healing 
from substance use takes time.  
On a peaceful 150-acre property outside Prince George, the 
Northern BC Therapeutic Community (NBCTC) gives residents 
that time, and through a supportive community structure, 
helps them build the tools needed to support lasting change. 
For Darnell, this approach has made all the difference, even if 
it took a setback to recognize it.  
“I knew I needed treatment, but looking back…my mind was 
completely focused on outside issues, not the program.”
Recovery Through Community
DARNELL’S JOURNEY AT NBCTC
14
Now, nearly one year into the program, Darnell is better 
equipped to overcome challenges and is building a strong 
foundation for his future.  
Looking ahead to life after NBCTC, Darnell is focused on finding 
employment, repairing relationships, and maintaining sobriety. 
Most importantly, he says, “I don’t feel like my addiction has 
control over me anymore.” 
“When I’m having a bad day, I pray and open 
up to others. I’m using the tools I was given and 
applying them in every aspect of my life, and it 
seems to be working.”   
As he worked to build on this experience and reintegrate into 
the program, Darnell leaned into the support of the 
community around him. Staff helped him rebuild confidence 
and deepen his participation, while fellow residents became 
an important source of accountability and understanding.
“Going through the program with the same 
guys every day, they become like brothers. 
They’re the only ones who know what I’ve gone 
through, and we can talk about anything.”  
15
“When we don’t use the tools we’re given, we 
can’t take care of ourselves. Rather than talking 
to others about my problems, I isolated myself.” 
When Darnell arrived at NBCTC, he was navigating 
homelessness, financial instability, and relationship 
challenges. Focused on what he needed to do for others 
rather than himself, Darnell struggled to fully engage in his 
own recovery. Months later, when a relationship setback led to 
a relapse, it gave Darnell the space to reevaluate.
Our Sincere Thanks
The achievements and updates shared in this report, a small 
fraction of the many we were proud to be a part of this past 
year, would not be possible without the collective efforts of our 
partners.
Our Partners
•	
Tenants and service users  
•	
Staff teams  
•	
Home Share providers  
•	
Volunteers  
•	
Board of Directors  
•	
Indigenous Advisory Committee   
•	
Leadership Gathering Committee & event sponsors  
•	
Government and community partners 
 
Thanks to all of you for your role in working toward our vision 
of a safe, healthy, and inclusive community for all.  We can’t 
wait to see what comes with this next chapter in our story! 
16
Connect With Us
